
“We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, and that among these are LIFE, LIBERTY, and the PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS.”—
Declaration of American Independence.





“SHALL tongues be mute when deeds are wrought
Which well might shame extremest Hell?
Shall freemen lack th' indignant thought?
Shall Mercy's bosom cease to swell?
Shall Honour bleed?—shall Truth succumb?
Shall pen, and press, and soul be dumb?”—
Whittier.






“WHY stands she near the auction stand,
That girl so young and fair?
What brings her to this dismal place,
Why stands she weeping there?”




“MY country, shall thy honoured name,
Be as a bye-word through the world?
Rouse! for, as if to blast thy fame,
This keen reproach is at thee hurled;
The banner that above thee waves,
Is floating o'er three million slaves.”




“How sweetly on the bill side sleeps
The sunlight with its quickening rays!
The verdant trees that crown the steeps,
Crow greener in its quivering blaze.”





“WHAT! mothers from their children riven!
What! God's own image bought and sold!
Americans to market driven,
And barter'd as the brute for gold.”—
Whittier.






“WHAT! preach and enslave men?
Give thanks—and rob thy own afflicted poor?
Talk of thy glorious liberty, and then
Bolt hard the captive's door?”—
Whittier.





“No seeming of logic can ever convince the American people, that thousands of our slave-holding brethren are not excellent, humane, and even Christian men, fearing God, and keeping His commandments.”—
Rev. Dr. Joel Parker.





“IN many ways does the full heart reveal
The presence of the love it would conceal;
But in far more the estranged heart lets know
The absence of the love, which yet it fain would show.”




“My tongue could never learn sweet soothing words,
But now thy beauty is propos'd, my fee,
My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speak.”


Shakspeare.



“HERE we see God dealing in slaves; giving them to his own favourite child [Abraham], a man of superlative worth, and as a reward for his eminent goodness.”—
Rev. Theodore Clapp, of New Orleans.
”



“UNBIND, unbind my galling chain,
And set, oh! set me free:
No longer say that I'll disdain
The gift of liberty.”




“AND see the servants met,
Their daily labour's o'er;
And with the jest and song they set
The kitchen in a roar.”




“Tis too much prov'd—that with devotion's visage,
And pious action, we do sugar o'er the devil himself.”


Shakspeare




“I PROMISED thee a sister tale
Of man's perfidious cruelty;
Come, then, and hear what cruel wrong
Befel the dark ladie.” —
Coleridge.






“I HAD a dream, a happy dream;
I thought that I was free:
That in my own bright land again
A home there was for me.”



“WE hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created free and equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” — 
Declaration of American Independence.





“THE fetters galled my weary soul—
A soul that seemed but thrown away;
I spurned the tyrant's base control,
Resolved at least the man to play.”





“WHO can, with patience, for a moment see
The medley mass of pride and misery,
Of whips and charters, manacles and rights,
Of slaving blacks and democratic whites,
And all the piebald policy that reigns
In free confusion o'er Columbia's plains?
To think that man, thou just and gentle God!
Should stand before thee with a tyrant's rod,
O'er creatures like himself, with souls from thee,
Yet dare to boast of perfect liberty”—
Thomas Moore.






“O WEEP, ye friends of freedom weep!
Your harps to mournful measures sweep.”




“Is the poor privilege to turn the key
Upon the captive, freedom? He's as far
From the enjoyment of the earth and air
Who watches o'er the chains, as they who wear.”


Byron.




“THE fearful storm—it threatens lowering,
Which God in mercy long delays;
Slaves yet may see their masters cowering,
While whole plantations smoke and blaze!”



Carter.




“I ASKED but freedom, and ye gave
Chains, and the freedom of the grave.”—
Snelling.






“No refuge is found on our unhallowed ground,
For the wretched in Slavery's manacles bound;
While our star spangled banner in vain boasts to wave
O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave!”




“Man's love is of man's life, a thing apart;
'Tis woman's whole existence.”—
Byron.




